Transformers.js v3 release blog (#2424)
huggingface/blog: transformersjs-v3.md

---

> title: "Transformers.js v3: WebGPU Support, New Models & Tasks, and More…"

Reviewer: Oh, I see you use the ellipsis here 😂

Author: Not sure how I mixed them up 😄 Good spot!

thumbnail: /blog/assets/transformersjs-v3/thumbnail.png
authors:
  - user: xenova
---

# Transformers.js v3: WebGPU Support, New Models & Tasks, and More…

After more than a year of development, we're excited to announce the release of 🤗 Transformers.js v3!

Highlights include:

- [WebGPU support (up to 100x faster than WASM!)](#webgpu-support)
- [New quantization formats (dtypes)](#new-quantization-formats-dtypes)
- [A total of 120 supported architectures](#120-supported-architectures)
- [25 new example projects and templates](#example-projects-and-templates)
- [Over 1200 pre-converted models on the Hugging Face Hub](#over-1200-pre-converted-models)
- [Node.js (ESM + CJS), Deno, and Bun compatibility](#nodejs-esm--cjs-deno-and-bun-compatibility)
- [A new home on GitHub and NPM](#a-new-home-on-npm-and-github)

## Installation

You can get started by installing [Transformers.js v3](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers.js) from [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@huggingface/transformers) using:

```bash
npm i @huggingface/transformers
```

Then, importing the library with

```js
import { pipeline } from "@huggingface/transformers";
```

> or via a CDN,

Reviewer: Should we maybe mention that this works in the browser?

```js
import { pipeline } from "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@huggingface/transformers@3.0.0";
```

For more information, check out the [documentation](http://hf.co/docs/transformers.js).

## WebGPU support

> ### What is WebGPU?
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Personal opinion: I don't think the nested heading is necessary here.

> WebGPU is a new web standard for accelerated graphics and compute. The [API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGPU_API) enables web developers to use the underlying system's GPU to carry out high-performance computations directly in the browser. WebGPU is the successor to [WebGL](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGL_API) and provides significantly better performance since it allows for more direct interaction with modern GPUs. Lastly, what makes it perfect for machine learning, is that it supports general-purpose GPU computations!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebGPU is a new web standard for accelerated graphics and compute. The [API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGPU_API) enables web developers to use the underlying system's GPU to carry out high-performance computations directly in the browser. WebGPU is the successor to [WebGL](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGL_API) and provides significantly better performance, because it allows for more direct interaction with modern GPUs. Lastly, it supports general-purpose GPU computations, which makes it just perfect for machine learning!
```

> [!WARNING]  
> As of October 2024, global WebGPU support is around 70% (according to [caniuse.com](https://caniuse.com/webgpu)), meaning some users may not be able to use the API.
>
> If the following demos do not work in your browser, you may need to enable it using a feature flag:
>

> > - Firefox: with the `dom.webgpu.enabled` flag.

Reviewer: Is there a link for this, or is it not necessary?

Author: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Firefox/Experimental_features#:~:text=tested%20by%20Firefox.-,WebGPU%20API,-The%20WebGPU%20API could work

> - Safari: with the `WebGPU` feature flag (see [here](https://webkit.org/blog/14879/webgpu-now-available-for-testing-in-safari-technology-preview/)).
> - Older Chromium browsers (on Windows, macOS, Linux): with the `enable-unsafe-webgpu` flag (see [here](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/webgpu/troubleshooting-tips)).

> ### Usage in Transformers.js v3

Reviewer: These examples are super cool. I wonder if we could additionally use something not in scrimba, one of your demos intended to wow users, not just developers.

Reviewer: (It doesn't matter, in my opinion, that there are additional demos later).

Author: The Segment Anything demo could be a good candidate for this. My only concern is that it's much more code than these short snippets (since it involves much more UI). Maybe a .gif will suffice and we point them to the actual source code at https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.js-examples/tree/main/segment-anything-webgpu?

Reviewer: Yes, I think a .gif would suffice to get people interested and dive deeper if they want!

Thanks to our collaboration with [ONNX Runtime Web](https://www.npmjs.com/package/onnxruntime-web), enabling WebGPU acceleration is as simple as setting `device: 'webgpu'` when loading a model. Let's see some examples!

> **Example:** Compute text embeddings on WebGPU ([demo](https://v2.scrimba.com/s06a2smeej))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example:** Compute text embeddings on WebGPU ([demo, see the output in your browser's console](https://v2.scrimba.com/s06a2smeej))
```

Reviewer: Something did pop up, but it didn't show the result. I was using Safari with WebGPU, so that may be the reason

  "https://huggingface.co/datasets/Xenova/transformers.js-docs/resolve/main/jfk.wav";
const output = await transcriber(url);
console.log(output);
// { text: ' And so my fellow Americans ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.' }
```

**Example:** Perform image classification with MobileNetV4 on WebGPU ([demo](https://v2.scrimba.com/s0fv2uab1t))

```js
import { pipeline } from "@huggingface/transformers";

// Create image classification pipeline
const classifier = await pipeline(
  "image-classification",
  "onnx-community/mobilenetv4_conv_small.e2400_r224_in1k",
  { device: "webgpu" },
);

// Classify an image from a URL
const url =
  "https://huggingface.co/datasets/Xenova/transformers.js-docs/resolve/main/tiger.jpg";
const output = await classifier(url);
console.log(output);
// [
//   { label: 'tiger, Panthera tigris', score: 0.6149784922599792 },
//   { label: 'tiger cat', score: 0.30281734466552734 },
//   { label: 'tabby, tabby cat', score: 0.0019135422771796584 },
//   { label: 'lynx, catamount', score: 0.0012161266058683395 },
//   { label: 'Egyptian cat', score: 0.0011465961579233408 }
// ]
```

## New quantization formats (dtypes)

> Before Transformers.js v3, we used the `quantized` option to specify whether to use a quantized (q8) or full-precision (fp32) variant of the model by setting `quantized` to `true` or `false`, respectively. Now, we've added the ability to select from a much larger list with the `dtype` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before Transformers.js v3, you could choose whether to use a quantized (q8) or full-precision (fp32) variant of the model by setting `quantized` to `true` or `false`. Now, we've added the ability to select from a much larger set of options with the `dtype` parameter.
```

    </picture>
  <a href="https://huggingface.co/mixedbread-ai/mxbai-embed-xsmall-v1/tree/main/onnx">(e.g., mixedbread-ai/mxbai-embed-xsmall-v1)</a>
</p>

### Basic usage

**Example:** Run Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct in 4-bit quantization ([demo](https://v2.scrimba.com/s0dlcpv0ci))

```js
import { pipeline } from "@huggingface/transformers";

// Create a text generation pipeline
const generator = await pipeline(
  "text-generation",
  "onnx-community/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct",
  { dtype: "q4", device: "webgpu" },
);

// Define the list of messages
const messages = [
  { role: "system", content: "You are a helpful assistant." },
  { role: "user", content: "Tell me a funny joke." },
];

// Generate a response
const output = await generator(messages, { max_new_tokens: 128 });
console.log(output[0].generated_text.at(-1).content);
```

### Per-module dtypes

Some encoder-decoder models, like Whisper or Florence-2, are extremely sensitive to quantization settings: especially of the encoder. For this reason, we added the ability to select per-module dtypes, which can be done by providing a mapping from module name to dtype.

> **Example:** Run Florence-2 on WebGPU ([demo](https://v2.scrimba.com/s0pdm485fo))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example:** Run Florence-2 on WebGPU ([demo](https://v2.scrimba.com/s0pdm485fo)), using half-precision for the vision encoder and `q4` for the text encoder and decoder.
```

const tokenizer = await AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_id);

// Load image and prepare vision inputs
const url =
  "https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/transformers/tasks/car.jpg";
const image = await RawImage.fromURL(url);
const vision_inputs = await processor(image);

// Specify task and prepare text inputs
const task = "<MORE_DETAILED_CAPTION>";
const prompts = processor.construct_prompts(task);
const text_inputs = tokenizer(prompts);

// Generate text
const generated_ids = await model.generate({
  ...text_inputs,
  ...vision_inputs,
  max_new_tokens: 100,
});

// Decode generated text
const generated_text = tokenizer.batch_decode(generated_ids, {
  skip_special_tokens: false,
})[0];

// Post-process the generated text
const result = processor.post_process_generation(
  generated_text,
  task,
  image.size,
);
console.log(result);
// { '<MORE_DETAILED_CAPTION>': 'A green car is parked in front of a tan building. The building has a brown door and two brown windows. The car is a two door and the door is closed. The green car has black tires.' }
```

</details>

## 120 supported architectures

> This release increases the total number of supported architectures to 120 (see [full list](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers.js/index#models)), spanning a wide range of input modalities and tasks. Notable new names include: Phi-3, Gemma & Gemma 2, LLaVa, Moondream, Florence-2, MusicGen, Sapiens, Depth Pro, PyAnnote, and RT-DETR.

Reviewer: 🤯

1. **Sapiens** (from Meta AI) released with the paper [Sapiens: Foundation for Human Vision Models](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.12569) by Rawal Khirodkar, Timur Bagautdinov, Julieta Martinez, Su Zhaoen, Austin James, Peter Selednik, Stuart Anderson, Shunsuke Saito.
1. **[ViTMAE](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/vit_mae)** (from Meta AI) released with the paper [Masked Autoencoders Are Scalable Vision Learners](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.06377) by Kaiming He, Xinlei Chen, Saining Xie, Yanghao Li, Piotr Dollár, Ross Girshick.
1. **[ViTMSN](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/vit_msn)** (from Meta AI) released with the paper [Masked Siamese Networks for Label-Efficient Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.07141) by Mahmoud Assran, Mathilde Caron, Ishan Misra, Piotr Bojanowski, Florian Bordes, Pascal Vincent, Armand Joulin, Michael Rabbat, Nicolas Ballas.

</details>

## Example projects and templates

> As part of the release, we've publishing 25 new example projects and templates, primarily focused on showcasing WebGPU support! This includes demos like [Phi-3.5 WebGPU](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.js-examples/tree/main/phi-3.5-webgpu) and [Whisper WebGPU](https://github.com/xenova/whisper-web/tree/experimental-webgpu), as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of the release, we've published 25 new example projects and templates, primarily focused on showcasing WebGPU support! This includes demos like [Phi-3.5 WebGPU](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.js-examples/tree/main/phi-3.5-webgpu) and [Whisper WebGPU](https://github.com/xenova/whisper-web/tree/experimental-webgpu), as shown below.
```

| <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/transformersjs-v3/phi-3.5-webgpu.gif" style="max-height: 500px;" alt="Phi-3.5 running on WebGPU" /> | <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/transformersjs-v3/whisper-turbo-webgpu.gif" style="max-height: 500px;" alt="Whisper Turbo running on WebGPU" /> |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |

## Over 1200 pre-converted models

As of today's release, the community has converted over 1200 models to be compatible with Transformers.js! You can find the full list of available models [here](https://hf.co/models?library=transformers.js).

> If you'd like to convert your own models, you can use our [conversion script](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.js/blob/main/scripts/convert.py) as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to convert your own models or fine-tunes, you can use our [conversion script](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.js/blob/main/scripts/convert.py) as follows:
```

maybe?

```sh
python -m scripts.convert --quantize --model_id <model_name_or_path>
```

> After uploading the generated files to the Hugging Face Hub, remember to add the `transformers.js` tag so others can easily find and use your model!

Reviewer: (unrelated to the post: upload and tag from the script, maybe?)

Author: I indeed am working on a branch with `--push_to_hub` option, and all that metadata will be added then! Unfortunately, it's not yet ready 😅 hopefully for v3.0.1! 😆

<p align="center">
    <picture>

>         <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/transformersjs-v3/models-dark.jpg" style="max-width: 100%;">

Reviewer: lol, I get 1,199 now. How's that possible? Do you have 46 private ones in your namespace?

Author: Oh looks like you're right! 👀😅 I will hopefully be making most of them public in the near future 🤞 
probably won't redo the photos

| [Bun](https://bun.sh/)         | A fast JavaScript runtime optimized for performance. It features a built-in bundler, transpiler, and package manager.                       | [Bun Example](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.js-examples/tree/main/bun)                                                                                                  |

## A new home on NPM and GitHub

Finally, we're delighted to announce that Transformers.js will now be published under the official Hugging Face organization on NPM as [`@huggingface/transformers`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@huggingface/transformers) (instead of
[`@xenova/transformers`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@xenova/transformers), which was used for v1 and v2).

We've also moved the repository to the official Hugging Face organization on GitHub (https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.js), which will be our new home — come say hi!

> This is a significant milestone and we're extremely grateful to the community for helping us achieve this long-term goal! None of this would be possible without all of you... thank you! 🤗

Reviewer: Super cool, but maybe we could also invite them to convert models, provide feedback, raise issues, ...

Author: Done ✅
